Add a Smart Contracts ABI page for LSP2Utils.sol, LSP5Utils.sol, LSP6Utils.sol & LSP10Utils.sol (#414)
lukso-network/docs: docs/standards/smart-contracts/lsp2-json-schema-utils.md

---
title: LSP2JSONSchemaUtils
sidebar_position: 12
---

# LSP2JSONSchemaUtils

:::info

[`LSP2Utils.sol`](https://github.com/lukso-network/lsp-smart-contracts/blob/develop/contracts/LSP2ERC725YJSONSchema/LSP2Utils.sol)

:::

This library should be used to generate ERC725Y keys described in the JSON Schema.

## Functions

### generateSingletonKey

```solidity
function generateSingletonKey(
    string memory keyName
) internal pure returns (bytes32);
```

Generates a data key of `keyType` Singleton.

#### Parameters:

| Name      | Type   | Description                                          |
| :-------- | :----- | :--------------------------------------------------- |
| `keyName` | string | The string to hash to generate a Singleton data key. |

#### Return Values:

| Name     | Type    | Description                      |
| :------- | :------ | :------------------------------- |
| `result` | bytes32 | Data key of `keyType` Singleton. |

> ### generateArrayKey

Reviewer: i would add a requirement for this that last 2 characters should be `[ ]`

```

Generates a data key of `keyType` Singleton.

#### Parameters:

| Name      | Type   | Description                                          |
| :-------- | :----- | :--------------------------------------------------- |
| `keyName` | string | The string to hash to generate a Singleton data key. |

#### Return Values:

| Name     | Type    | Description                      |
| :------- | :------ | :------------------------------- |
| `result` | bytes32 | Data key of `keyType` Singleton. |

### generateArrayKey

```solidity
function generateArrayKey(
    string memory keyName
) internal pure returns (bytes32);
```

Generates a data key of `keyType` Array by hashing `keyName`.

#### Parameters:

| Name      | Type   | Description                                                            |
| :-------- | :----- | :--------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `keyName` | string | The string that will be used to generate a data key of `keyType` Array |

#### Return Values:

| Name     | Type    | Description                  |
| :------- | :------ | :--------------------------- |
| `result` | bytes32 | Data key of `keyType` Array. |

> :::note

Reviewer 2: I would suggest that we don't put the requirements as blockquote + not in a info callout.
To keep the layout consistent with the other Requirements pages. For instance in LSP0

<img width="801" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/31145285/197169976-cb6e1646-34db-4348-88a9-a5e1a355b935.png">

Author: Adding the info block was suggested by @YamenMerhi to have something similar to [authorizeOperator](http://docs.lukso.tech/standards/smart-contracts/lsp8-identifiable-digital-asset#authorizeoperator) in LSP8.

#### Requirements:

- The last two characters should be `[]`.

>   E.g.:

Author: Actually I talked with @YamenMerhi and he liked the idea of adding a solidity example. Let’s double check this @CJ42 @YamenMerhi @skimaharvey

```solidity
string memory keyName = "ArrayName[]";
```

:::

### generateArrayElementKeyAtIndex

```solidity
function generateArrayElementKeyAtIndex(
    bytes32 arrayKey,
    uint256 index
) internal pure returns (bytes32);
```

> Generates an Array index data key by concatenating the first 16 bytes of `arrayKey` and `index` transformed from uint256 to bytes16 (uint256 -> uint128 -> bytes16)

Reviewer 2: I don't think we should explain the underlying code (in the function body), but just roughly what is happening. I suggest this.

```suggestion
Generates an Array index data key by concatenating the first 16 bytes of `arrayKey` with an `index`. 
```
